[DCP218639] DOM_Remove_Enum_Entry Tutorial (#1985)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Advanced_Modules/DOM/Tutorials/DOM_Remove_Enum_Entry.md

---
uid: DOM_Remove_Enum_Entry
---

# How to remove an enum entry from a GenericEnumFieldDescriptor

This tutorial shows you how to soft-delete and permanently delete an enum entry from a GenericEnumFieldDescriptor.

## Overview

- [Step 1: Setup DOM](#step-1-setup-dom)
- [Step 2: Soft-delete the enum entry](#step-2-soft-delete-the-enum-entry)
- [Step 3: Remove the value from existing instances](#step-3-remove-the-value-from-existing-instances)
- [Step 4: Remove the enum entry from the DOM definition](#step-4-remove-the-enum-entry-from-the-dom-definition)

> The soft-delete option on an enum entry hides that entry to users. That way users are unable to create more DOM instances using that entry. Later on the entry can be completely removed.

Reviewer: Lots of 'entry' in these few lines, would use a different word in some cases

> If the entry is used by a DOM instance, that value needs to be removed from those instances before removing it from the definition. If that enum entry is not used, it can immediately be removed (see [Step 4: Remove the enum entry from the DOM definition](#step-4-remove-the-enum-entry-from-the-dom-definition)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the entry is used by a DOM instance, that value needs to be removed from those instances before removing it from the descriptor. If that enum entry is not used, it can immediately be removed (see [Step 4: Remove the enum entry from the DOM definition](#step-4-remove-the-enum-entry-from-the-dom-definition)).
```

> If the entry is used by a DOM instance, that value needs to be removed from those instances before removing the entry from the definition. If that enum entry is not used, it can immediately removed (see [Step 4: Remove the enum entry from the DOM definition](#step-4-remove-the-enum-entry-from-the-dom-definition)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the entry is used by a DOM instance, that value needs to be removed from those instances before removing the entry from the definition. If that enum entry is not used, it can immediately be removed (see [Step 4: Remove the enum entry from the DOM definition](#step-4-remove-the-enum-entry-from-the-dom-definition)).
```

## Step 1: Setup DOM

This setup is purely for the tutorial, you can use your own setup and apply the other steps to your setup (see [Step 2: Soft-delete the enum entry](#step-2-soft-delete-the-enum-entry)).

The given code does the following:

> 1. Creates a DOM module

Reviewer: '.' at EOL, same for the ones under this

> 1. Creates a DOM definition containing a GenericEnumFieldDescriptor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Creates a DOM definition that links to a SectionDefinition containing a GenericEnumFieldDescriptor.
```

> 1. Creates a DOM instance using that enum entry of that DOM definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Creates a DOM instance with a value for the enum descriptor.
```

```C#
using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Automation;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Apps.DataMinerObjectModel;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Apps.Modules;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Apps.Sections.SectionDefinitions;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.GenericEnums;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.ManagerStore;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Messages.SLDataGateway;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Sections;

namespace Tutorial
{
    ///<summary>
    /// This script will create a basic people app with one DomInstance.

>     /// Each domInstance for this sectionDefinition will contain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /// Each DomInstance for this SectionDefinition will contain:
```

>     ///     - first name of the person

Reviewer 2: I feel capitalization for each item would look nicer.

    ///     - last name of the person
    ///     - phone number of the person
    ///     - job title of the person
    ///</summary>
    public class Script
    {
        private const string ModuleName = "people_app";

>         private DomHelper _domHelper;

Reviewer 2: Having these two private fields seems unnecessary since we only have one method.

        private Engine _engine;

        public void Run(Engine engine)
        {
            _engine = engine;
            _domHelper = new DomHelper(_engine.SendSLNetMessages, ModuleName);
            
            // Create the ModuleSettingsHelper
            var moduleSettingsHelper = new ModuleSettingsHelper(_engine.SendSLNetMessages);

>             // Create the default moduleSettings and save it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            // Create the default ModuleSettings and save it
```

            var moduleSettings = new ModuleSettings(ModuleName);
            moduleSettingsHelper.ModuleSettings.Create(moduleSettings);

>             // Start creating the DOM objects now that you have the domHelper

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            // Start creating the DOM objects now that you have the DomHelper
```

            var firstNameFieldDescriptor = new FieldDescriptor()
            {
                FieldType = typeof(string),
                IsOptional = false,
                Name = "First name",

>                 Tooltip = "First name of the person"

Reviewer 2: The tooltip can be left out to keep things shorter. (Same for the IsOptionals that are false maybe)

            };

            var lastNameFieldDescriptor = new FieldDescriptor()
            {
                FieldType = typeof(string),
                IsOptional = false,
                Name = "Last name",
                Tooltip = "Last name of the person"
            };

            var phoneNumberFieldDescriptor = new FieldDescriptor()
            {
                FieldType = typeof(string),
                IsOptional = false,
                Name = "Phone number",
                Tooltip = "Phone number of the person"
            };

            var genericEnum = new GenericEnum<int>();
            genericEnum.AddEntry("Director", 0);
            genericEnum.AddEntry("Project manager", 1);
            genericEnum.AddEntry("Engineer", 2);
            genericEnum.AddEntry("Secretary", 3);

            var jobTitleFieldDescriptor = new GenericEnumFieldDescriptor()
            {
                FieldType = typeof(GenericEnum<int>),
                IsOptional = true,
                GenericEnumInstance = genericEnum,
                Name = "JobTitle",
                Tooltip = "Job title of the person"
            };

>             // Put all the fieldDescriptors in a sectionDefinition

Reviewer 2: Camel casing doesn't feel right imo, I would suggest going over the whole file and changing the naming from 'fieldDescriptor' to 'FieldDescriptor'.

            var sectionDefinition = new CustomSectionDefinition()
            {
                Name = "PeopleSectionDefinition"
            };

            sectionDefinition.AddOrReplaceFieldDescriptor(firstNameFieldDescriptor);
            sectionDefinition.AddOrReplaceFieldDescriptor(lastNameFieldDescriptor);
            sectionDefinition.AddOrReplaceFieldDescriptor(phoneNumberFieldDescriptor);
            sectionDefinition.AddOrReplaceFieldDescriptor(jobTitleFieldDescriptor);

            sectionDefinition = _domHelper.SectionDefinitions.Create(sectionDefinition) as CustomSectionDefinition;

            // Create the domDefinition
            var personDomDefinition = new DomDefinition()
            {
                Name = "PersonDomDefinition",
                SectionDefinitionLinks = new List<SectionDefinitionLink>()
                {

>                     new SectionDefinitionLink(sectionDefinition?.GetID())

Reviewer 2: We can ignore the null check here '?'. That should never be the case, and if it were, the script should stop anyway. So I feel they can be removed on lines 129 and 135.

                }
            };

            personDomDefinition = _domHelper.DomDefinitions.Create(personDomDefinition);

>             var sectionDefinitionId = sectionDefinition?.ID;

Reviewer 2: Maybe skip these assignments to keep the script a bit shorter. We can just refer to the FieldDescriptors in the code below it.

            var fieldValues = new List<FieldValue>()
            {
                new FieldValue(firstNameFieldDescriptorId, new ValueWrapper<string>("John")),
                new FieldValue(lastNameFieldDescriptorId, new ValueWrapper<string>("Doe")),
                new FieldValue(phoneNumberFieldDescriptorId, new ValueWrapper<string>("0423482635")),
                new FieldValue(jobTitleFieldDescriptorId, new ValueWrapper<int>(0)),
            };

            // Add them to a Section linked to the ID of the GeneralSectionDefinition
            var generalSection = new Section()
            {
                SectionDefinitionID = sectionDefinitionId
            };

            foreach (var fieldValue in fieldValues)
            {
                generalSection.AddOrReplaceFieldValue(fieldValue);
            }

            // Create of the actual DomInstance
            var domInstance = new DomInstance()
            {
                DomDefinitionId = domDefinitionId,
                Sections = { generalSection }
            };
            domInstance = _domHelper.DomInstances.Create(domInstance);
        }
    }
}
```

> To visualize the setup, create a low code app. On that low code app:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To visualize the setup, create a low-code app. On that low-code app:
```

> To visualize the setup, create a low code app. On that low code app:

Reviewer 2: Not entirely sure whether we should explain this in detail here. In theory, how you can configure a DOM form should be documented somewhere else. (Not sure if that is already the case?) Either way, I would suggest specifying that we are talking about GQI queries and maybe that the items should be dragged on the 'canvas' or something like that. (Maybe check the docs about app editing and see how it worded there)

> 1. Drag the DOM definition: *"Object Manager Definitions" > "people_app" > "PersonDomDefinition"*

Reviewer: Same here for the '.'. also check others in file

1. Choose the "Form" visualization
1. Create a query that shows all instances: *"Queries" > "Get object manager instances" > "people_app" > "PersonDomDefinition"*
1. Drag the query and choose "Table" visualization

   ![Step1](~/user-guide/images/DOM_Remove_Enum_Entry_Step1_1.png)

   ![Step1_2](~/user-guide/images/DOM_Remove_Enum_Entry_Step1_2.png)

## Step 2: Soft-delete the enum entry

The given code does the following:

> 1. Gets the enum entry from the DOM definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Gets the enum entry from the SectionDefinition.
```

1. Sets the property "IsSoftDeleted" of the enum entry to true.

> 1. Updates the DOM definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Updates the SectionDefinition.
```

> ```C#

Reviewer 3: Copy-pasting this code block in an automation script gives me 1 error after validating:
"IGenericEnumEntry does not contain a definition for IsSoftDeleted and no accessible extension method 'IsSoftDeleted' accepting a first argument of type 'Bar.placeOrderForm' could be found (are you missing a using directive or an assembly reference?"

using System;
using System.Linq;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Automation;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Apps.DataMinerObjectModel;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.ManagerStore;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Sections;

namespace Tutorial
{
    ///<summary>

>     /// This script will set the "IsSoftDeleted" property of the enum entry "Director" of the DOM definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /// This script will set the "IsSoftDeleted" property of the enum entry "Director" of the SectionDefinition.
```

    ///</summary>
    public class Script
    {
        private const string ModuleName = "people_app";

>         private DomHelper _domHelper;

Reviewer 2: Same here, and for all other scripts.

        private Engine _engine;

        public void Run(Engine engine)
        {
            _engine = engine;
            _domHelper = new DomHelper(_engine.SendSLNetMessages, ModuleName);

>             // Searching by name, can also use the IDs, it will do less calls and needs less null checks

Reviewer 2: Already explained below the script, maybe skip this comment than also.

            var sectionDefinitionName = "PeopleSectionDefinition";
            var fieldDescriptorName = "JobTitle";
            var enumName = "Director";

>             var sectionDefinitions = _domHelper.SectionDefinitions.ReadAll();

Reviewer 2: Use a filter on the SectionDefinition name. (SectionDefinitionExposers.Name.Equal(..))

            var sectionDefinition = sectionDefinitions.First(x => x.GetName() == sectionDefinitionName);

>             var fieldDescriptor = sectionDefinition.GetAllFieldDescriptors().First(x => x.Name == fieldDescriptorName) as GenericEnumFieldDescriptor;

Reviewer 2: Use 'FirstOrDefault', it could otherwise throw

>             if (fieldDescriptor == null) { return; }

Reviewer 2: Maybe best to add an information event that the FieldDescriptor was not found (on a separate line).

            var enumDelete = fieldDescriptor.GenericEnumInstance.Entries.First(x => x.DisplayName == enumName);

>             enumDelete.IsSoftDeleted = true;

Reviewer 2: Maybe separate this line to highlight the actual part of setting the bool to 'true'.

            _domHelper.SectionDefinitions.Update(sectionDefinition);
        }
    }
}
```

> This example uses the names of the section definition and field descriptor. Another option is to use the IDs, that way less calls and null checks are needed, but those IDs still need to be looked up. Note: these IDs will not work, you need the IDs of your setup.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure what the best approach is to refer to the SectionDefintions. (SectionDefinition, or section definition) 
Could you double-check with technical writing for this? I think most of the current DOM documentation uses 'SectionDefinition'.

> This example uses the names of the section definition and field descriptor. Another option is to use the IDs, that way less calls and null checks are needed, but those IDs still need to be looked up. Note: these IDs will not work, you need the IDs of your setup.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this can be left out here if you are using the filter element. We only do one call to the server. Whether this is a name filter or ID filter doesn't really matter (enough).

> This example uses the names of the section definition and fielddescriptor. Another option is to use the IDs, that way less calls and null checks are needed, but those IDs still need to be looked up. Note: these IDs will not work, you need the IDs of your setup.

Reviewer: sectionDefinition or section definition?
I also think the correct spelling is ID's?

Reviewer 2: ('IDs' is correctly written)

> ```C#

Reviewer 2: I would suggest removing this part and keeping the slightly easier 'name' one. Explaining the different ways of retrieving DOM objects will be part of a separate page/tutorial. (If I suggested to add this, my apologies)

        private DomHelper _domHelper;
        private Engine _engine;

        public void Run(Engine engine)
        {
            _engine = engine;
            _domHelper = new DomHelper(_engine.SendSLNetMessages, ModuleName);

            // Searching by ID, can also use the names, it will do more calls, but don't need to lookup IDs
            var enumName = "Director";

            var sectionDefinitionId = new SectionDefinitionID(Guid.Parse("66e11713-28a2-4e6e-84cf-16a539721404"));
            var fieldDescriptorId = new FieldDescriptorID(Guid.Parse("1c149c48-3e56-4798-a92b-368d7ae827b4"));

            var filter = SectionDefinitionExposers.ID.Equal(sectionDefinitionId);

            var sectionDefinition = _domHelper.SectionDefinitions.Read(filter).First();
            var fieldDescriptor = sectionDefinition.GetFieldDescriptorById(fieldDescriptorId) as GenericEnumFieldDescriptor;

            var enumDelete = fieldDescriptor.GenericEnumInstance.Entries.First(x => x.DisplayName == enumName);
            enumDelete.IsSoftDeleted = true;
            _domHelper.SectionDefinitions.Update(sectionDefinition);
        }
    }
}

```

> 
> After soft-deletion, you should not see that enum entry in the dropdown of the form on your low code app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

After soft-deletion, you should not see that enum entry in the dropdown of the form on your low code app anymore.
```

   ![Step2](~/user-guide/images/DOM_Remove_Enum_Entry_Step2.png)

## Step 3: Remove the value from existing instances

The given code does the following:
1. Gets all instances that use the enum entry.
1. Removes the enum value.
1. Updates the instances.

```C#

> using System;

Reviewer 2: (Do we need all these usings?)

using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Linq;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Automation;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Apps.DataMinerObjectModel;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Apps.Modules;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Apps.Sections.SectionDefinitions;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.GenericEnums;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.ManagerStore;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Messages.SLDataGateway;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Sections;

namespace Tutorial
{
    ///<summary>
    /// This script will remove the enum value "0" (int value of "Director") from all existing instances.
    ///</summary>
    public class Script
    {
        private const string ModuleName = "people_app";
        private DomHelper _domHelper;
        private Engine _engine;

        public void Run(Engine engine)
        {
            _engine = engine;
            _domHelper = new DomHelper(_engine.SendSLNetMessages, ModuleName);

            var sectionDefinitionName = "PeopleSectionDefinition";
            var fieldDescriptorName = "JobTitle";
            var enumValue = 0; // int value of the enum entry "Director" we want to delete

>             var sectionDefinitions = _domHelper.SectionDefinitions.ReadAll();

Reviewer 2: Also use the name filter element here

            var sectionDefinition = sectionDefinitions.First(x => x.GetName() == sectionDefinitionName);
            var fieldDescriptor = sectionDefinition.GetAllFieldDescriptors().First(x => x.Name == fieldDescriptorName) as GenericEnumFieldDescriptor;

>             if(fieldDescriptor == null){return;}

Reviewer 2: Same comment as previous snippet.

            var filter = DomInstanceExposers.FieldValues.DomInstanceField(fieldDescriptor.ID).Contains(enumValue);

>             var instancesToDelete = _domHelper.DomInstances.Read(filter);

Reviewer 2: We should probably make this a bit more robust as there could be a lot of instances. I would suggest adding paging and outputting an information event on every page so you know it is still ongoing.

Reviewer 2: Loop over each page to update them, so not all of them are read in memory.

            foreach (var instance in instancesToDelete)
            {
                var section = instance.Sections.First(x => x.SectionDefinitionID.Equals(sectionDefinition.GetID()));
                section.RemoveFieldValueById(fieldDescriptor.ID);

>                 _domHelper.DomInstances.Update(instance);

Reviewer 2: Isn't there a method that can be used to remove a FieldValue from a DomInstance without needing to search for the Section ourselves?

Author: There is no method to remove a FieldValue on a DomInstance

            }
        }
    }
}
```

After the removal, you should see that the enum value is removed from the instance.

   ![Step3](~/user-guide/images/DOM_Remove_Enum_Entry_Step3.png)

## Step 4: Remove the enum entry from the DOM definition

The given code does the following:
1. Gets the enum from the DOM definition.
1. Removes the enum entry by copying the original enum, but leaving out the one to remove.
1. Updates the DOM definition.

> ```C#

Reviewer 2: Same comments for this snippets as the others.

using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.GenericEnums;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.ManagerStore;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Messages.SLDataGateway;
using Skyline.DataMiner.Net.Sections;

namespace Tutorial
{
    ///<summary>
    /// This script will remove the enum entry "Director" from the DOM definition.
    ///</summary>
    public class Script
    {
        private const string ModuleName = "people_app";
        private DomHelper _domHelper;
        private Engine _engine;

        public void Run(Engine engine)
        {
            _engine = engine;
            _domHelper = new DomHelper(_engine.SendSLNetMessages, ModuleName);

            var sectionDefinitionName = "PeopleSectionDefinition";
            var fieldDescriptorName = "JobTitle";
            var enumName = "Director";

            var sectionDefinitions = _domHelper.SectionDefinitions.ReadAll();
            var sectionDefinition = sectionDefinitions.First(x => x.GetName() == sectionDefinitionName);
            var fieldDescriptor = sectionDefinition.GetAllFieldDescriptors().First(x => x.Name == fieldDescriptorName) as GenericEnumFieldDescriptor;
            if (fieldDescriptor == null) { return; }

>             var newEnum = new GenericEnum<int>();

Reviewer 2: Separate the new enum creation with an enter to make it more clear.

            foreach (var entry in fieldDescriptor.GenericEnumInstance.Entries.Where(x => x.DisplayName != enumName))
            {
                newEnum.AddEntry(entry.DisplayName, (int)entry.Value);
            }
            fieldDescriptor.GenericEnumInstance = newEnum;
            _domHelper.SectionDefinitions.Update(sectionDefinition);
        }
    }
}
```

> If you look into the DOM definition the enum entry is now completely removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you look into the DOM definition, the enum entry is now completely removed.
```

> If you look into the DOM definition, the enum entry is now completely removed.

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that this can be done using the SLNet Client Test Tool.
